That agreed journey together
Trodding along our memorised but now slippery path
Loads on our backs
Through that pitch dark darkness, our impenetrable cover
We needed no eyes
Trained feet knew the way, what was there to see?

The same hope, our attained common future together
Too dark to notice brothers swallowed by darkness
Trodding, trained feet carry us down the memorised meanderings
Our hearts suddenly break like brittle glass, totally unprepared for a vandalised trusted route

We’re doomed, lost, on this strange wide road
We gathered courage to regroup and ask ourselves
Who built new roads when we were away?
Whose feet,  from  our blood cemented team,  could sense and pick our old trusted narrow paths?

Whose wide new road was this?
Work of traitors! Why this wide road? Foreigner designed road? 
We were trapped in this dangerous openness
We agreed on this revelation, right there in the security of our abundant pitch dark darkness.

We knew our memorised narrow path
They destroyed it when we were away
 This new wide road killed our path
This pitch dark darkness is now our only common heritage

Whose rusty cough is that?
Then this fresh fragrance of rain soaked cow dung!
The rich aroma of wet ploughed soils!
Refreshed hope of being near life in this pitch dark darkness,  in this new strange openness!
\r\n
He lights a candle
We enter what could have been a big room, maybe all of us
He apologises
Electricity had been lost in these rains
He only has this candle
This candle whose light blinds our eyes
Who was at work in these rains, in this pitch dark darkness?
How then can lost electricity just come to ignite this bright bulb?
This very bright bulb with blinding brightness that tortures us more than the lit candle
It is now too bright for us to notice who had been lost in the pitch dark darkness
Too blinding to notice we have our wet heavy dirty bags stuck to our backs in this bright brightness
\r\n
 That new road killed our trusted narrow path, which was always hidden in our familiar darkness! 
  Who had the courage to gather us again for a revelation on how to carry on in this wild openness?
We all now see that even weak light can kill that darkness that kept us secure on that War Front
But who is comfortable in this brutal light that is exposing our filth and unhealed deep War Wounds?
Who else is still out there in that darkness enjoying its solid security!
  Who will be the Custodian of that pitch dark darkness, our last common heritage? 
The candle continues to burn unnoticed, unnoticeable
Yet this candle fights and wins wars over the darkest darkness when rain kills electricity!
 This Gallant lit candle cannot shine anymore! It has to wait for fresh relevance brought by storms!
