Stop...Breathe…Close your eyes…
\r\n
Now think about your yearly plans, Yes the ones you write every New Year.
\r\n
The ones that you write on the first page of your yearly diary. The ones you postpone every end of the
year because you failed to fulfill in that year. Trust me you are not to blame, no you are to blame do you
check or evaluate your social circle every year when you make your yearly goals? They are the ones who
determine your breakthrough. They are the ones who hold your ticket to success. Okay, this seems silly
or should I say not believable, like how can your friend hold your ticket to success. Let me tell you how.\r\n
Take for example an eagle’s egg which got mixed up with a hen’s eggs. It later on hatches but is still
looked after by the hen. She feeds her chicks every time and does the same for the baby eagle. The baby
eagle grows in the comfort of the chickens. Trust me the hen is not to blame but rather to worth the
praise. What about the chicks who took the baby eagle to be one of their own? They searched for
worms together or even played together. Yes, the chicken family was so kind to the eagle, but there was
one tiny problem. The wonderful chicken family was not worth the eagle’s potential. It provides the
eagle with food, comfort, warmth, and even the family love one deserves. The eagle’s potential is like a
priceless jewel in the hands of someone who does not know its worth. Like, she keeps the jewel safe
because she likes it, but only if she knew its value she would have kept it with more love. Please do not
get me wrong I mean imagine losing the only house in your position, leaving your family with no place to
call home while you are in the position of a watch worth a fortune. The eagle could fly like any other
eagle but it was robbed of its ability to reach for the sky by its ignorance. It could have asked why it was
so different from the rest? Why did it look so much like the other eagles it saw flying? Why did it never
try to imitate those who looked like it?
\r\n
Now let us take this back to our lives, we can be so much like the eagle if we are not careful. We need to
evaluate ourselves more often. Our friends can be the caring chicken family which is not worth your
potential at all!!! We tend to mimic the daily trends, activities, and thoughts of our social circle. We all
do this subconsciously or even consciously in the name of “fitting in” Instead of putting yourself in a
position to stand out we tend to try and blend in with the crowd. We want to be so “cool”,” fly”, “lit” all
those terms you refer to when you are describing a guru in fashion or modern-day dressing I should say.
We can also try to mimic the Instagram celebrities who post pictures which we admire the most,
Pause…wait is that on your yearly goal or your social circle made you think that you can look your best
on Instagram. Yet your yearly goal is not being achieved. Your friends will be waiting for you to post your
“lit” picture so that they get you more likes, comments, and shares. They are doing all in their power to
help you reach your “never planned for the goal of a million likes” Please do not get me wrong I also
post pictures on Instagram, my friends support me in whatever way possible. My point is if your ultimate
goal is reading a hundred books in a month and you spend seven hours trying to look for a perfect spot
to take your picture, then two more hours editing it. Imagine doing that for all your pictures. How many
hours are you going to be wasting instead of reaching and archiving your goal you are doing the
complete opposite?
\r\n
Every time you think of writing your yearly plans on the first page of your diary make sure your friends
are the right fit for it. Make sure your social circle is the perfect fit for it. You do not have to cut ties with
your friends all you gotta do is to learn how to stand out. You are not supposed to look for friends who
are identical to you in terms of interests and all instead look for friends who accept you and your goals.
You do not have to tailor your goals with anyone!!!! Be you and the right social circle will cling by. The
eagle could have been itself but raised by the chicken family. I remember my favorite childhood cartoon
series ‘the jungle book’ . \r\nThe mother wolf never taught the boy to walk on four legs but rather two on
which he admitted he was human but had a wolf family. The same could be said for your social circle.
You can be yourself with a different social family to yourself. That way trust my goals can be achieved
and you will be happy. Make it a habit, evaluate your social circle, and leave no goal behind.