The problem with any stereotype is not that it is untrue but because it is incomplete.
Zimbabwe has been defined as laden with disease, poverty and economic crises. Sadly
people have painted Zimbabwe a portrait rich in negative colour that not even the truth can
erase. Exploiting Zimbabweans has been justified and oddly we call it help. The cry of the
Zimbabwean people is drowned by the post-independence transgressions of our leaders
and that has ultimately become an excuse to watch a nation fall without offering help.
It is a known fact that Zimbabwe is undergoing a severe economic crisis. This has resulted in
nationwide fuel shortages, a strike by junior medical practitioners on account of low
salaries, an inflated local currency and closure of crucial industries. These issues are
publicised and the response is sadly more sickening than the issues themselves.
\r\n
The media and publicity agents have hardened at the sight of Zimbabwe and actually worsen these
stereotypes through sick and inhumane portrayals of Zimbabwe.
Another known fact is the Land Revolution that took place in 2000 and left many white
farmers uncompensated. A robbery in which land, justice and humanity were stolen. The
result of this was harsh economic sanctions, reduced international support and ultimately
the birth of the popular stereotype that ZIMBABWE DOES NOT DESERVE TO BE HELPED.
The international community act as vultures on our dead economy, scavenging and fighting
over the last our resources and wealth. Being poor or rather being known as poor makes it
right for economic exploitation and coercing the poor public to view it as foreign investment
is what has been happening in Zimbabwe.\r\n
2012 witnessed the relocation of thousands of families from the Chiadzwa Diamond Zone to
enable the commencement of mining. The Chinese came in hoards and relocated families
through lies and unfulfilled promises. Not a single family received compensation for their
loss or financial support in the new environment. I was a witness of this malpractice by
governments as my family too was relocated. The money from diamonds benefited no one
but the Chinese and a few corrupt ministers. When the alarm was raised on this issue the
biased international community found a way to blame us for being backward and difficult.
This was easy to do so as a picture of Zimbabwe being hostile was already painted in
decades past. We claim to be in an era where slavery is non-existent and everyone is equal.
The funny thing is the same people who convey this message are the same ones who
instigate local politics, exploit our resources, slam us with sanctions and ultimately keep the
fence of oppression abreast. Zimbabwe can be great again and restored to its rightful
breadbasket state. This can only be through collective action to remove these harmful
stereotypes that surround my nation’s image. \r\n We have to realise the impact of these
stereotypes as they affect us and the future generations. Zimbabwe is not that poor,
disease-ridden nation which killed the white farmers!